README.md, before:

# esphome_syslog

A simple syslog component for esphome. The component is designed to auto attach itself to the logger core module (like the MQTT component does with the `log_topic`)

This component uses the https://github.com/arcao/Syslog library version 2.0 at its core

## How to

To install, locate your `esphome` folder, create a folder named `custom_components` got into it and execute 
```shell
git clone https://github.com/TheStaticTurtle/esphome_syslog.git syslog
```

Simply add this to your configuration: 
```yaml
syslog:
```

When used like this, the component will simply **broadcast its log to everyone on the network** to change this behavior you can add the `ip_address` and `port` option like this:
```yaml
syslog:
    ip_address: "192.168.1.53"
    port: 514
```

Default behavior strips the esphome color tags from the log (The `033[0;xxx` and the `#033[0m`) if you do not want this set the `strip_colors` option to False.

Due to the differences in log levels of syslog and esphome I had to translate them, here is a table:
| Esphome level                  | Syslog level |
|--------------------------------|--------------|
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_NONE         | LOG_EMERG    |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_ERROR        | LOG_ERR      |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_WARN         | LOG_WARNING  |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_INFO         | LOG_INFO     |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_CONFIG       | LOG_NOTICE   |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_DEBUG        | LOG_DEBUG    |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_VERBOSE      | LOG_DEBUG    |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_VERY_VERBOSE | LOG_DEBUG    |

This table is however open to discussion as it's my interpretation, if you want to change it you can do so in the `syslog_component.cpp` file and change the array at line 22

## Warning
This component should not break anything however if it does please open an issue. I have successfully tested this component with an esp8266 it is possible that it will not work on an esp32 but if it doesn't it should be really easy to add compatibility

Commit message:

Added enable_logger option and documentation of the syslog.log action

README.md, after:

# esphome_syslog

A simple syslog component for esphome. The component is designed to auto attach itself to the logger core module (like the MQTT component does with the `log_topic`)

This component uses the https://github.com/arcao/Syslog library version 2.0 at its core

## How to

To install, locate your `esphome` folder, create a folder named `custom_components` got into it and execute 
```shell
git clone https://github.com/TheStaticTurtle/esphome_syslog.git syslog
```

Simply add this to your configuration: 
```yaml
syslog:
```

When used like this, the component will simply **broadcast its log to everyone on the network** to change this behavior you can add the `ip_address` and `port` option like this:
```yaml
syslog:
    ip_address: "192.168.1.53"
    port: 514
```

Default behavior strips the esphome color tags from the log (The `033[0;xxx` and the `#033[0m`) if you do not want this set the `strip_colors` option to False.

Default behavior also sets `enable_logger` to True if you wish to disable sending logger message and only use the `syslog.log` actino you can do so

The action `syslog.log` has 3 settings:
```yaml
then:
    - syslog.log:
        level: 7
        tag: "custom_action"
        payload: "My log message"
```

Due to the differences in log levels of syslog and esphome I had to translate them, here is a table:
| Esphome level                  | Syslog level |
|--------------------------------|--------------|
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_NONE         | LOG_EMERG    |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_ERROR        | LOG_ERR      |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_WARN         | LOG_WARNING  |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_INFO         | LOG_INFO     |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_CONFIG       | LOG_NOTICE   |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_DEBUG        | LOG_DEBUG    |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_VERBOSE      | LOG_DEBUG    |
| ESPHOME_LOG_LEVEL_VERY_VERBOSE | LOG_DEBUG    |

This table is however open to discussion as it's my interpretation, if you want to change it you can do so in the `syslog_component.cpp` file and change the array at line 22

## Warning
This component should not break anything however if it does please open an issue. I have successfully tested this component with an esp8266 it is possible that it will not work on an esp32 but if it doesn't it should be really easy to add compatibility
